>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JULY 19:
HOW ISIS IS INDOCTRINATING A
GENERATION OF CHILDREN.
AND, IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
WHY AMERICAN OFFICIALS ARE
INCREASINGLY CONCERNED ABOUT
FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION.
>> LET'S WAKE UP AND LET'S START
THINKING ABOUT THE FACT THAT
THERE IS SOMEONE AROUND YOU THAT
MIGHT BE GOING THROUGH THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE FAMILY OF MUHAMMAD YOUSSEF
ABDULAZEEZ SAYS THERE ARE NO
WORDS TO DESCRIBE THE "SHOCK,
HORROR, AND GRIEF" IT FEELS THAT
THE 24-YEAR GUNNED DOWN AND
KILLED FIVE U.S. MILITARY
SERVICEMEN IN CHATTANOOGA,
TENNESSEE.
IN A STATEMENT, THEY SAY:
"THE PERSON WHO COMMITTED THIS
HORRIBLE CRIME WAS NOT THE SON
WE KNEW AND LOVED.
FOR MANY YEARS, OUR SON SUFFERED
FROM DEPRESSION.
IT GRIEVES US BEYOND BELIEF TO
KNOW THAT HIS PAIN FOUND ITS
EXPRESSION IN THIS HEINOUS ACT
OF VIOLENCE."
ABDULAZEEZ'S FAMILY SAYS IT IS
COOPERATING WITH INVESTIGATORS
AND OFFERS CONDOLENCES TO THE
FAMILIES OF FOUR MARINES AND ONE
SAILOR KILLED IN THURSDAY'S
ATTACK, SAYING: "...WE ARE
TRULY SORRY FOR THEIR LOSS."
POLICE KILLED ABDULAZEEZ IN A
SHOOTOUT.
BUT NONE OF HIS VICTIMS HAD BEEN
ARMED, DESPITE BEING MEMBERS OF
THE MILITARY AT A RESERVE
CENTER.
NOW, THE GOVERNORS OF SIX
STATES-- FLORIDA, LOUISIANA,
ARKANSAS, OKLAHOMA, TEXAS, AND
INDIANA-- ARE ORDERING THEIR
NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERS TO ARM
THEMSELVES.
UTAH CHANGED ITS POLICY A YEAR
AGO.
TENNESSEE'S GOVERNOR SAYS HE IS
REVIEWING HIS STATE'S WEAPONS
POLICY.
DEFENSE SECRETARY ASH CARTER HAS
ASKED THE ARMED SERVICES TO
RECOMMEND BY THIS WEEK ANY
NEEDED SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS AT
DOMESTIC MILITARY BASES.
CURRENTLY, TROOPS AT RECRUITING
CENTERS AND RESERVE OFFICERS ARE
NOT ALLOWED TO CARRY GUNS.
CARTER HAS APPROVED A MARINE
CORPS REQUEST TO ALLOW
RECRUITERS TO WEAR PLAIN CLOTHES
INSTEAD OF THEIR UNIFORMS, AT
LEAST FOR NOW.
THE UNITED NATIONS SECURITY
COUNCIL IS SET TO VOTE TOMORROW
ON THE DEAL TO CURB IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM, WHICH WOULD
LIFT THE SANCTIONS ON IRAN IN
EXCHANGE FOR ALLOWING U.N.
WEAPONS INSPECTORS TO VISIT
IRANIAN MILITARY SITES.
REPUBLICANS IN THE U.S. ARE
CONDEMNING THE VOTE AS AN "END
RUN" AROUND CONGRESS, SAYING
LAWMAKERS HAVEN'T EVEN HAD A
CHANCE TO EXAMINE THE AGREEMENT.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT SENT THE
DETAILED PACT TO CONGRESS ONLY
TODAY.
LAWMAKERS HAVE 60 DAYS TO REVIEW
IT, AND ANOTHER 22 DAYS TO VOTE
ON IT.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAYS THE DEAL IS THE BEST WAY TO
STOP IRAN FROM GETTING A NUCLEAR
BOMB.
>> IF CONGRESS SAYS NO TO THIS
DEAL, THEN THERE WILL BE NO
RESTRAINTS ON IRAN, THERE WILL
BE NO SANCTIONS LEFT, OUR
FRIENDS IN THIS EFFORT WILL
DESERT US, WE WILL BE VIEWED AS
HAVING KILLED THE OPPORTUNITY TO
STOP THEM FROM HAVING A WEAPON,
THEY WILL BEGIN TO ENRICH AGAIN,
AND THE GREATER LIKELIHOOD IS
WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID THEY
OTHER DAY, YOU'LL HAVE A WAR.
>> Sreenivasan: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU SAYS
THE PACT WON'T STOP THAT FROM
HAPPENING.
>> I THINK THE RIGHT THING TO DO
IS MERELY NOT TO GO AHEAD WITH
THIS DEAL, THERE ARE MANY OTHER
THINGS THAT CAN BE DONE TO STOP
IRAN'S AGGRESSION, BUT MAKING
THIS DEAL IS NOT ONE OF THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION AGREED TO LIFT
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ON IRAN IN
EXCHANGE FOR ALLOWING WEAPONS
INSPECTIONS, BUT ONLY CONGRESS
HAS THE POWER TO ACTUALLY REPEAL
OR REJECT THOSE SANCTIONS.
IN UKRAINE, GOVERNMENT FORCES
AND PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS ARE
ACCUSING EACH OTHER OF VIOLATING
A CEASEFIRE, LAST NIGHT IN THE
CITY OF DONETSK, IN THE EASTERN
PART OF THE COUNTRY.
PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS CLAIM THE
UKRAINIAN MILITARY DESTROYED
BUILDINGS AND KILLED AT LEAST
ONE CIVILIAN IN THE SHELLING OF
A RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT THE UKRAINE GOVERNMENT SAYS
THE REBELS WERE THE ONES WHO
TARGETED THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
FIRED ON UKRAINIAN POSITIONS.
DONETSK HAS NOT SEEN ANY
FIGHTING SINCE FEBRUARY.
AN INTERNATIONAL MONITORING
GROUP SAYS NEITHER SIDE IS FULLY
COMPLYING WITH THE PEACE DEAL.
WHILE THE ISLAMIC STATE MILITANT
GROUP, OR ISIS, CAPTURES CITIES
IN SYRIA AND IRAQ, CARRIES OUT
SUICIDE BOMBINGS, IT IS ALSO
WORKING TO BUILD A NEW
GENERATION OF JIHADIST FIGHTERS.
IN A STORY PUBLISHED TODAY,
ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER ZEINA
KARAM DESCRIBES HOW ISIS IS
INDOCTRINATING YOUNG BOYS IN
SCHOOLS AND MOSQUES, AND
TRAINING THEM WITH WEAPONS.
SHE JOINS ME NOW FROM BEIRUT.
SO TELL ME, YOUR REPORT, ONE OF
THE MOST DISTURBING FACTS IS
LITTLE KIDS ARE BEHEADING DOLLS
FOR PRACTICE.
WHAT'S HAPPENING THERE?
>> Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT.
AS WE WERE REPORTING THIS STORY,
WE HEARD HORRIBLE STORIES FROM
PEOPLE WHO FLED THE ISIS AREAS
AND ONE OF THEM WAS A
14-YEAR-OLD TEENAGER WHO TOLD US
ABOUT THIS TIME IN A TRAINING
CAMP IN RUSSIA, IN NORTHERN
SYRIA.
THE BOY WAS PICKED OUT FROM HIS
FAMILY AND HUNDREDS OF OTHERS
FROM HIS FAITH WHEN ISIS OVERRAN
PARTS OF NORTHERN IRAQ LAST
SUMMER.
AND HE ENDED UP IN TRAINING CAMP
AND SPENT THE NEXT FIVE MONTHS
LEARNING HOW TO USE WEAPONS,
TRAINING ON EXPLOSIVES.
THEY CHANGED HIS FACE TO MUSE
LIMB.
HE WAS FORCED TO MEMORIZE THE
KORAN.
AND MOST DISTURBINGLY OF ALL, HE
WAS -- AMONG OTHER KIDS HE WAS
FORCED TO WATCH BEHEADINGS.
AND HE SAID HOW KIDS WERE HANDED
SWORDS AND GUNS AND ASKED TO
CHOP OFF THE HEADS OF THE DOLLS
AS PRACTICE ON BEHEADINGS.
AND HE HOLD US, YOU KNOW, THAT
HE COULDN'T DO IT AND THEN THEY
MILITARY TOLD THEM HOW TO HOLD
THE SWORD AND HOW TO DO IT
RIGHT, AND THEY TOLD THEM THESE
ARE THE HEADS OF THE INFIDELS.
SO -- BUT THAT'S WHAT KIDS ARE
SUBJECTED TO IN ISLAM STATE
TRAINING CAMPS IN SYRIA AND
IRAQ.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHY IS ISIS
TARGETING CHILDREN?
DO THEY FEEL THEIR A LOST CAUSE
OR IT'S HARDER TO CONVERT THEM
AND BELIEVE BUT A KID YOU CAN
ALMOST TRAIN AND MOLD?
>> Reporter: WELL, YES.
QUITE SIMPLY, THE ISIS GROUP IS
TRYING TO BUILD A NEW GENERATION
OF MILITANTS.
THEY ARE TRYING TO MOLD A NEW
GENERATION OF -- AND THE GROUP
HAS SO MANY ENEMIES AND THEY
KNOW THAT THEY ARE NOT POPULAR,
YOU KNOW, PARTICULARLY IN SYRIA
AND MOST OF THE PLACES THAT THEY
CONTROL, THEY KNOW THEY ARE NOT
POPULAR.
THEY KNOW THAT PEOPLE -- MOST --
OR MANY PEOPLE ACTUALLY HATE
THEM.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, ONE RESIDENT
TOLD US THAT THEY COMPENSATE ON
THE CHILDREN BECAUSE THEY
BELIEVE THAT THE ADULTS ARE A
LOST CAUSE, AND SO THEY FOCUS ON
TRAINING AND BRAINWASHING KIDS
ALMOST TO THE POINT OF
OBSESSION.
>> Sreenivasan: AND HOW MANY
CHILDREN ARE WE TALKING ABOUT?
OR HOW DO YOU ESTIMATE THAT?
HOW ARE THEY INGRATIATING
THEMSELVES OR WINNING THE FAVOR
OF THESE KIDS?
>> Reporter: THEY USE LOTS OF
WAYS, ANY WAY AT THEIR DISPOSAL,
THEY WILL USE.
THEY TRY -- IT STARTS ON THE
STREETS.
THEY TRY TO GET CHILDREN UP THE
STREETS AND MOSQUES.
THEY USE CASH AND GIFTS,
INTIMIDATION.
THEY GIVE CHILDREN TOYS ON THE
STREET.
THEY HAVE SPECIAL EVENTS FOR
CHILDREN TO TRY TO ENTICE THEM.
AND BIT BY BIT, THEY SUBJECT
THEM TO THE PROPAGANDA, AND THEY
TRAIN THEM EVENTUALLY THEY TURN
THEM AGAINST THEIR PARENTS.
WE SAW THROUGH ONE WHO TOLD US
ABOUT THIS 15 -- TEENAGER WHO
LEFT HOME BECAUSE THEY TURNED
HIM AGAINST HIS PARENTS.
HE ACCUSED HIS PARENTS OF BEING
NONBELIEVERS AND BAD MUSLIMS
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T PRAY AND,
EVENTUALLY, HE JOINED ISIS AND
DISAPPEARED.
SO THAT'S WHAT THEY DO.
AND UNFORTUNATELY, PARENTS ARE
UNABLE TO TO ANYTHING ABOUT THIS
SAD REALITY SHORT OF LOCKING
THEIR CHILDREN AT HOME.
THERE'S NOTHING THEY CAN DO.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU ALSO POINTED
OUT THIS IS HAPPENING IN SOME
REFUGEE CAMPS.
>> Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT.
I WAS IN TURKEY.
I WORKED ON THIS STORY, AND WE
WERE TOLD BY MANY PEOPLE THERE,
PEOPLE WHO -- FORMER RESIDENTS
OF REFUGEE CAMPS THAT ISLAMIC
STATE USES THE CAMPS TO TRY AND
FIND NEW RECRUITS AS WELL.
SOMETIMES IT'S DONE UNDER THE
GUISE OF HUMANITARIAN WORK.
THEY IN IN AND THEY START
TALKING TO PEOPLE.
THEY FIND -- SOMETIMES IT'S
ORPHANS.
SOMETIMES IT'S CHILDREN WHO ARE
IN DESPERATE NEED OF MONEY, AND
SOMETIMES THEY GIVE THEM CASH,
AND THEY TRY TO GAIN THEIR
SYMPATHY THAT WAY.
AND THAT'S HOW IT STARTS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, ZEINA
KARAM, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS,
JOINING US VIA SKYPE FROM
BEIRUT.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: MITSUBISHI IS
THE FIRST JAPANESE COMPANY TO
APOLOGIZE FOR USING AMERICAN
PRISONERS OF WAR AS FORCED
LABORERS DURING WORLD WAR TWO.
MITSUBISHI SAYS IT MADE FIVE-
HUNDRED AMERICAN P.O.W.'S WORK
IN ITS COPPER MINES FROM 1943 TO
1945.
MANY DIED IN ACCIDENTS OR
STARVED TO DEATH.
EXECUTIVES WERE JOINED BY ONE
94-YEAR-OLD SURVIVOR AT THE
CEREMONY TODAY AT THE SIMON
WIESENTHAL CENTER IN LOS
ANGELES.
THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
APOLOGIZED TO P.O.W.'s FIVE
YEARS AGO.
A RARE RAINSTORM HAS HELPED
EXTINGUISH WILDFIRES IN
CALIFORNIA.
A FIRE THAT BROKE OUT FRIDAY IS
NOW 60% CONTAINED.
IT BURNED EIGHT SQUARE MILES IN
THE HILLS NORTHEAST OF LOS
ANGELES.
AT ONE POINT, THE FIRE SPREAD
ONTO INTERSTATE 15, WHICH
CONNECTS L.A. TO LAS VEGAS.
THE FLAMES PARALYZED TRAFFIC,
FORCED DRIVERS TO FLEE THEIR
CARS, AND DESTROYED 20 VEHICLES.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS THE
COST OF MEDICAID EXPANSION UNDER
OBAMACARE IS SURGING PAST
INITIAL PROJECTIONS.
AN A.P. ANALYSIS PUBLISHED TODAY
FINDS MEDICAID, THE FEDERAL-
STATE HEALTH PROGRAM FOR THE
POOR, IS EXPECTED TO COVER
69 MILLION PEOPLE THIS YEAR.
THAT'S MORE THAN THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE ENROLLED IN MEDICARE, THE
GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE
PROGRAM FOR THE ELDERLY.
AT LEAST 14 OF THE 30 STATES
THAT AGREED TO EXPAND MEDICAID
UNDER THE PRESIDENT'S AFFORDABLE
HEALTH CARE ACT NOW ANTICIPATE A
SERIOUS BUDGET STRAIN, ACCORDING
TO A.P.
IN KENTUCKY, MEDICAID ENROLLMENT
DOUBLED.
CALIFORNIA EXPECTED TO ENROLL
800,000 NEW MEDICAID RECIPIENTS,
BUT NEARLY TRIPLE THAT NUMBER,
2.3 MILLION, SIGNED UP.
THE STATE OF NEW YORK HAS ADDED
1.1 MILLION NEW RECIPIENTS.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL PAY
STATES FOR MEDICAID EXPANSION
THROUGH 2016 AND THEN WILL SCALE
BACK.
STATES WILL HAVE TO PAY 10% OF
THE COSTS BY 2020.
NOW ONLINE, MY INTERVIEW WITH
PRO PUBLICA'S OLGA PIERCE ABOUT
THE IMPORTANCE OF CHOOSING THE
RIGHT SURGEON AND WHAT CAN
HAPPEN IF YOU DON'T DO YOUR
RESEARCH.
I THINK THE CONVENTIONAL
WISDOM HERE WAS YOU CHOOSE A
GOOD HOSPITAL BASED ON
REPUTATION OR SOMETHING ELSE.
THERE'S SORT OF A REASONABLE
EXPECTATION THAT THAT HOSPITAL
HAS SORT OF SCREENED OUT ANY
SURGEONS WHO ARE SUBPAR.
WE FOUND IN OUR RESEARCH THERE
ARE GREAT SURGEONS IN PLACES YOU
WOULDN'T EXPECT AND ALSO
SURGEONS THAT APPEAR TO BE
PROBLEMATIC AT INSTITUTIONS.
AND TO READ PRO PUBLICA'S
SURGEON SCORECARD, VISIT
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: FEMALE GENITAL
MUTILATION IS WIDELY THOUGHT OF
AS SOMETHING AFFECTING WOMEN IN
COUNTRIES HALFWAY AROUND THE
WORLD.
BUT ADVOCATES HERE SAY MANY
WOMEN WHO'VE IMMIGRATED TO THE
UNITED STATES MAY HAVE BEEN
SUBJECTED TO THE PAINFUL
PROCEDURE OR COULD STILL BE AT
RISK.
THAT RISK, ADVOCATES SAY, CAN GO
UP DURING THE SUMMER MONTHS,
WHEN GIRLS OFTEN TRAVEL BACK TO
THEIR HOME COUNTRIES,
PARTICULARLY IN AFRICA, TO VISIT
FAMILY.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
TONIGHT, NEWSHOUR'S MEGAN
THOMPSON HAS MORE ON THE STORY.
A WARNING: THIS SEGMENT HAS
CONTENT THAT MAY NOT BE SUITABLE
FOR ALL VIEWERS.
>> Reporter: WHEN AISSATA CAMARA
WAS 13, SHE IMMIGRATED TO
QUEENS, NEW YORK, FROM THE WEST
AFRICAN COUNTRY OF GUINEA.
SHE FIT IN, WENT TO HIGH SCHOOL
AND COLLEGE IN THE CITY, AND
EARNED A MASTER'S DEGREE AT NEW
YORK UNIVERSITY.
BUT THERE WAS A PART OF HER LIFE
SHE TOLD NO ONE ABOUT, SOMETHING
SHE THOUGHT PEOPLE HERE WOULD
NOT UNDERSTAND.
SHE WAS SUBJECTED TO FEMALE
GENITAL MUTILATION.
>> IT WAS VERY LONELY.
BECAUSE WHO SPOKE TO ME ABOUT
IT?
NO ONE.
SO, YOU'RE-- HERE, YOU'RE
CARRYING THIS BIG SECRET WITH
YOU, AND NO ONE IS THERE TO HELP
YOU.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION,
BETWEEN 100 AND 140 MILLION
WOMEN HAVE UNDER-GONE FEMALE
GENITAL MUTILATION, ALSO KNOWN
AS CUTTING.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS IT'S
PRACTICED MOSTLY IN 29 COUNTRIES
IN AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST,
EVEN THOUGH IT'S BEEN OUTLAWED
IN MOST OF THEM.
IN EGYPT, SOMALIA AND GUINEA,
IT'S ESTIMATED MORE THAN 90% OF
WOMEN HAVE BEEN CUT.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
SAYS THE ANCIENT PRACTICE RANGES
FROM REMOVING PART OR ALL OF A
GIRL'S CLITORIS TO, IN THE MOST
SEVERE CASES, NARROWING THE
VAGINAL OPENING BY SEWING IT
ALMOST COMPLETELY SHUT.
THE THINKING BEHIND IT VARIES.
IN GUINEA, AISSATA SAYS IT'S
BELIEVED TO KEEP A GIRL FROM
BEING PROMISCUOUS AND MORE
ELIGIBLE FOR MARRIAGE.
SHE WAS 11-YEARS-OLD WHEN HER
AUNTS CAME TO TAKE HER.
SHE HID UNDER HER BED.
>> YOU GO TO THE CUTTER'S HOUSE.
AND THEN, YOU ALL SIT DOWN.
AND IT'S BY AGE.
AND THE ONE PERSON GOES IN.
YOU HEAR THEM SCREAM.
THEY'RE COMING OUT CRYING.
NEXT PERSON GOES IN.
YOU HEAR THEM SCREAM.
THEY'RE COMING OUT CRYING.
YOUR BASIC HUMAN INSTINCT IS TO
RUN AWAY.
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE THERE.
>> Reporter: PARTS OF AISSATA'S
CLITORIS AND LABIA WERE REMOVED
BY A CUTTER, WHO USED NO
ANESTHESIA.
SHE SAYS IT HAPPENED TO
VIRTUALLY EVERY GIRL SHE KNEW,
BUT NO ONE TALKED ABOUT IT.
16 YEARS LATER, SHE STILL FEELS
PAIN FROM THE SCARRING, ENDURES
EMBARRASSING CONVERSATIONS WITH
DOCTORS AND BOYFRIENDS.
AND, SHE SAYS, SHE WILL NEVER
FORGET THE FEAR.
>> OBVIOUSLY, PRIOR TO ME BEING
CUT, I KNEW MY BODY.
I KNEW WHO I WAS.
AND-- AND THEN, ONCE YOU ARE
CUT, YOU BECOME A DIFFERENT
PERSON.
SO, I THINK ALSO FOR ME, THE
FEAR-- I FEEL-- WANTING TO RUN
AWAY FROM SOMETHING AND THEN NOT
BEING ABLE TO.
I THINK THAT IT DOES SOMETHING
TO YOU.
I THINK THAT IT-- IT REALLY
TOUCHES YOU TO THE CORE OF
YOURSELF.
>> Reporter: NO ONE KNOWS HOW
MANY WOMEN AND GIRLS LIVING IN
THE U.S. HAVE BEEN SUBJECTED TO
FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION, OR
"FGM."
THERE'S NO SYSTEM TO TRACK OR
REPORT IT.
BUT IN THE LAST 15 YEARS, THE
NUMBER OF IMMIGRANTS FROM AFRICA
HAS DOUBLED, TO ABOUT
1.8 MILLION.
ONE RESEARCH GROUP, THE
POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU,
ESTIMATES HALF A MILLION AFRICAN
WOMEN AND GIRLS IN THE U.S. ARE
AT RISK OF FGM OR MIGHT BEING
HAVE BEEN SUBJECTED TO CUTTING
BACK HOME.
IT'S ESPECIALLY A CONCERN HERE
IN NEW YORK, WHICH HAS THE
LARGEST AFRICAN IMMIGRANT
POPULATION IN THE COUNTRY.
>> IT'S HORRIBLE.
IT IS A VIOLATION OF THE RIGHT
OF THE WOMAN.
MA WHAT THEY -- WHAT THEY ARE
TAKING WILL NEVER COME BACK.
MIRIAMO DIALLO SERVES THE LARGE
AFRICAN IMMIGRANTS.
SEIZE SEEN A NUMBER OF WOMEN
GRAPPLING WITH THE CONSEQUENCES
OF FGM WHICH CAN INCLUDE
MENSTRUATION AND CHILDBIRTH.
AND WOMEN CAN HAVE TROUBLE WITH
INTERESTS SENSITIVE TO THE
ISSUE.
DIALLO ALSO SEES GIRLS
THREATENED BY FGM AND MOTHERS
FACING SOCIAL PRESSURE TO HAVE
IT DONE ON THEIR DAUGHTERS,
EVEN.
THEY DON'T WANT TO.
>> ONE IS COMPLETELY EXCLUDED
FROM THE COMMUNITY.
AND SO IT MAKES PEOPLE GO
THROUGH IT OR THE FAMILY, THEY
WANT TO HAVE A WOMAN IN THE
FAMILY THAT IS NOT MUTILATED
BECAUSE IT CAN AFFECT THE
REPUTATION THE OF THE FAMILY.
AND IT'S A WAY TO BECOME A
WOMAN.
>> Reporter: DIALLO SAYS IT'S
RARE, BUT SHE HAS SEEN YOUNG
WOMEN SENT BACK TO AFRICA TO
HAVE IT DONE.
IT'S KNOWN AS VACATION CUTTING,
BECAUSE IT USUALLY HAPPENS
DURING SUMMER VACATION FROM
SCHOOL.
>> I HAVE FOUR CASES LIKE THAT.
THEY ARE BORN IN THE UNITED
STATES BUT WENT FOR VACATION AND
IT HAPPENED.
I HEAR FROM MY CLIENT ALSO LIKE
SOMEONE IN THE COMMUNITY THAT
SENT THEIR CHILD TO AFRICA FOR
THE PURPOSE OF FGM.
>> Reporter: DIALLO SAYS DOCTORS
AND EDUCATORS COULD PLAY AN
IMPORTANT ROLE IN IDENTIFYING
GIRLS AT RISK, BUT MANY HAVEN'T
HAD THE TRAINING.
DIALLO HELPED ONE CLIENT WHOSE
FAMILY PLANNED TO SEND HERE BACK
TO AFRICA TO BE CUT.
SHE TRIED TO GET HELP AT SCHOOL.
>> AND SHE WENT TO SCHOOL, AND
SHE SPOKE WITH THE GUIDANCE
COUNSELOR WHO DID NOT KNOW WHAT
SHE WAS TALKING ABOUT, AND THE
GUIDANCE COUNSELOR ACCEPTED SENT
HER BACK HOME!
AND I THINK IF IT WAS A CASE
WHERE THE CHILD WENT TO SEE A
GUIDANCE COUNSELOR, TOLD THE
GUIDANCE COUNSELOR SOMETHING AS
SIMPLE AS I DON'T FEEL SAFE, I'M
NOTE GOING BACK HOME, THEY WOULD
CALL THE CHILDREN'S SERVICES.
BUT WITH FGM, THEY SEE IT AS A
CULTURAL PROBLEM, SO THEY DON'T
WANT TO GET INVOLVED.
AND I THINK THIS IS A SERIOUS
PROBLEM, BECAUSE IT IS, YOU
KNOW, IT IS CHILD ABUSE.
>> Reporter: CONGRESSMAN JOSEPH
CROWLEY REPRESENTS PARTS OF
QUEENS AND THE BRONX.
BOTH HOME TO LARGE IMMIGRANT
POPULATIONS.
FGM IS OUTLAWED IN THE U.S. AND
IN 2013, CROWLEY HELPED PASS A
LAW ALSO MAKING IT ILLEGAL TO
TAKE GIRLS OUT OF THE COUNTRY TO
HAVE IT PERFORMED.
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN NO
PROSECUTIONS SO FAR AND CROWLEY
ADMITS IT'S NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE TO
KNOW HOW OFTEN IT ACTUALLY
HAPPENS.
>> I THINK IT IS A SENSITIVE
ISSUE.
BUT WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT IT.
RIGHT NOW THERE'S SILENCE.
IT JUST HAPPENS.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT NEEDS TO
BE ADDRESSED.
>> Reporter: DO WE KNOW THIS IS
A WIDESPREAD PROBLEM OR IS IT
MAYBE JUST A FEW ISOLATED
INCIDENTS?
>> WE KNOW THAT THE POTENTIAL IS
THERE.
IF IT'S ONE GIRL, IN MY OPINION,
IT'S ONE GIRL TOO MANY.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE NEED
TO FOCUS ON.
WE KNOW IT HAS HAPPENED.
WE KNOW IT CAN HAPPEN AND
PROBABLY WILL HAPPEN AGAIN.
WE -- OUR COUNTRY, THE UNITED
STATES NEEDS TO DO MORE.
>> Reporter: CROWLEY AND OTHERS
POINT TO BRITAIN, WHERE LAST
MONTH PRIME MINISTER DAVID
CAMERON CALLED FOR A CRACKDOWN
ON THE PRACTICE.
ALREADY THE U.K. OFFERS PASSPORT
INSERTS FOR GIRLS TRAVELING TO
AFRICA EXPLAINING THAT FGM IS
ILLEGAL, AND LAST WEEK, THE
ROYAL COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS
AND GYNECOLOGISTS ISSUED NEW
GUIDELINES FOR DOCTORS TO REPORT
CASES THEY SEE AND HOW TO BETTER
TREAT WOMEN SUBJECTED TO IT.
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SOMEONE
THAT IS SO -- SOMETHING THAT IS
SO SECRETIVE, IT INVOLVES GIRLS
THAT MAY NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
HAPPENING TO THEM OR HAPPENED TO
THEM, HOW TO YOU POLICE THAT?
>> IT'S VERITIVE.
BUT I DO THINK -- IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT, BUT I DO THINK WE
NEED AN AWARENESS CAMPAIGN TO
HAVE POSTERS AT AIRPORTS AND
DOCTORS AND NURSES AND EDUCATORS
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ENGAGED IN
UNDERSTANDING THAT IT IS AGAINST
THE LAW TO DO THIS AND THEY
SHOULD BE ON THE LOOKOUT.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE WANT TO
BREAK THE LAW.
I THINK IF THEY KNOW THAT
SOMETHING HAS BEEN MADE ILLEGAL
THAT THEY WILL RESPECT THE LAW.
>> Reporter: LAST YEAR,
ADVOCATES GATHERED MORE THAN
220,000 SIGNATURES ON A PETITION
DEMANDING BETTER DATA.
>> IN ORDER TO ERADICATE FGM
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES, WE
NEED UPDATED STATISTICS.
>> Reporter: IN RESPONSE, THE
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION IS NOW WORKING ON ITS
OWN STUDY OF HOW MANY GIRLS IN
THE U.S. MAY BE AT RISK, AND THE
WHITE HOUSE HAS ASKED FEDERAL
AGENCIES TO FIND A WAY TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUE.
AND NEXT WEEK, ADVOCATES ARE
LAUNCHING A NEW CAMPAIGN TO GET
MORE STATES TO PASS THEIR OWN
LAWS BANNING FGM.
ONLY ABOUT HALF OF THEM
CURRENTLY DO.
AISSATA SAYS PEOPLE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND FAMILIES OFTEN THINK
THE PRACTICE IS IN THEIR GIRLS'
BEST INTEREST, NOT REALIZING THE
LONG-TERM CONSEQUENCES.
>> WE NEED TO STOP LOOKING AT
THEM AS IF THEY ARE ALIENS
COMING FROM OTHER PLACES AND WE
HAVE TO RESPECT PEOPLE'S CULTURE
NO MATTER WHAT IT IS AND THEN
FROM THAT RESPECT IS I RESPECT
YOUR IDEA OF THINKING THAT YOU
ARE PROTECTING YOUR CHILD, BUT
HERE ARE THE REASONS WHY YOU'RE
NOT AND HERE ARE THE REASONS WHY
YOU NEED TO CHANGE THIS.
>> Reporter: AISSATA IS SPEAKING
OUT ABOUT WHAT SHE WENT THROUGH.
SHE'S LAUNCHING HER OWN GROUP TO
FIGHT FGM IN THE U.S.
SHE SAYS MOST PEOPLE DON'T
REALIZE A PROBLEM THAT SEEMS TO
DISTANT COULD BE HITTING SO
CLOSE TO HOME.
>> I LOOK LIKE YOU.
I WENT TO SCHOOL HERE.
I AM AS AMERICAN AS I THINK
ANYONE IS.
AND -- BUT I WENT THROUGH IT.
SO LET'S WAKE UP.
LET'S WAKE UP AND LET'S START
THINKING ABOUT THE FACT THAT
THERE IS SOMEONE AROUND YOU THAT
MIGHT BE GOING THROUGH THIS.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST NIGHT,
NEWSHOUR'S STEPHEN FEE REPORTED
ON THE DIFFICULTIES FACING
SOMALI IMMIGRANTS WHO WORK IN
THE U.S. AND TRY TO SEND MONEY
BACK TO THEIR FAMILIES.
TONIGHT, HE REPORTS ON A NEW
YORK COMPANY OFFERING A
TECHNOLOGY SOLUTION FOR
IMMIGRANTS TRYING TO TRANSFER
CASH HOME.
>> Reporter: FOR 34-YEAR-OLD
ENTREPRENEUR EDDIE DE LA CRUZ,
STARTING HIS FINANCIAL TECH
COMPANY IN THE BRONX WAS A NO-
BRAINER.
>> THIS IS WHERE I COME FROM.
IT GIVES ME AN OPPORTUNITY TO
KIND OF REINVEST IN THE VERY
SAME COMMUNITY THAT I
PARTOOK WHEN I FIRST CAME TO
THIS COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: DE LA CRUZ
EMIGRATED FROM THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC AT AGE NINE.
AFTER HIGH SCHOOL, HE WORKED AS
AN AIRPLANE MECHANIC AT J.F.K.
AIRPORT.
>> AND THROUGHOUT THAT TIME I
WAS SENDING MONEY BACK HOME IN
SOME WAY SHAPE OR FORM.
>> Reporter: HOW MUCH USUALLY?
>> IT REALLY VARIES, ANYWHERE
FROM $200, $300.
>> Reporter: IN 2012, THE PEW
RESEARCH CENTER SAYS IMMIGRANTS
IN THE U.S. SENT OVER
$120 BILLION ABROAD.
BUT INSTEAD OF SENDING CASH, DE
LA CRUZ' STARTUP REGALII, A PLAY
ON THE SPANISH WORD FOR GIFT,
ALLOWS IMMIGRANTS TO DIRECTLY
PAY BILLS FOR FAMILY AND FRIENDS
BACK HOME.
>> INSTEAD OF SENDING CASH AND
HAVING YOUR GRANDMOTHER, YOUR
AUNT ON THE OTHER SIDE HAVING TO
GO PICK UP THE MONEY AND HAVING
TO GO SOMEWHERE ELSE TO PAY HER
ELECTRICITY, HER GAS, HER WATER,
WE ENABLE IMMIGRANTS HERE TO
CONTROL THEIR FAMILIES'
FINANCES THERE.
>> Reporter: TRADITIONALLY MONEY
TRANSFER OPERATORS WIRE CASH
FROM ONE STOREFRONT, LIKE THIS
ONE IN THE BRONX, TO A
STOREFRONT IN, SAY, THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
REGALII USES THAT SAME NETWORK
BUT ELIMINATES THE STOREFRONT ON
THE RECIPIENTS' END, KEEPING
FEES LOWER.
AND REGALII'S CUSTOMERS CAN PAY
BILLS ONLINE OR USING THEIR
SMARTPHONES.
>> THE ACT OF SENDING MONEY IT'S
NOT A TRANSACTIONAL ACT AS MUCH
AS AN ACT OF REALLY KINDNESS AND
SUPPORT, RIGHT.
>> Reporter: DE LA CRUZ HOPES
HIS MODEL, FOR NOW ONLY
AVAILABLE IN LATIN AMERICA,
COULD GO GLOBAL.
>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW ON THE
NEWSHOUR, A CLOSER LOOK AT GANG-
RELATED VIOLENCE IN CHICAGO,
WHERE THE NUMBER OF DEAD AND
INJURED IS RISING THIS SUMMER,
DESPITE EFFORTS TO STEM THE
BLOODSHED.
>> IT'S SO EASY FOR THESE KIDS
TO GET GUNS IT'S LIKE GOING TO
THE STORE TO GET A BOX OF JUICE.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY TONIGHT,
FORMER PRESIDENT BUSH IS IN
MAINE AFTER SPENDING FOUR DAYS
IN THE HOSPITAL.
HE FELL LAST NIGHT IN HIS SUMMER
HOME AND BROKE A BONE IN HIS
NECK.
HE'S EXPECTED TO MAKE A FULL
RECOVERY.
AND TOMORROW AFTER 54 YEARS, THE
U.S. REOPENS ITS EMBASSY IN
HAVANA, CUBA, ADVANCE THE
RENEWED DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
THE CUBAN EMBASSY WILL ALSO
REOPEN TOMORROW IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.